.TH BATTALION 1 "February 1995"
.SH NAME
battalion - a giant monster game
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B battalion
[
.B -backdrop
]
[
.B -detail
]
[
.B -music
]
[
.B -sound
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I battalion
is a giant monster game where you are a giant monster
fighting to survive against the military while causing
as much destruction as you can.
.PP
You can choose to be one of four possible monsters: Googelon,
the Vapour, Techs, or Flutter:
.PP
.RS 5
.IP Googelon 20
An idealistic young monster from Osaka bay heads off to America
to seek his fortune.

.IP "The Vapour" 20
A dangerous experiment on a college campus goes terribly wrong an the
vapour escapes from a dorm room after a really excellent party.

.IP Techs 20
A communications satellite gains consciousness while broadcasting a
Sam Peckinpah retrospective. After several more hours studying the
films of Sergio Leone and John Woo, Techs heads down to Earth, ready
to integrate into society.

.IP Flutter 20
A bug zapper is accidentally cross connected to the atomic pile of a 
nuclear reactor. A thunderous ZAP! The sky is filled with blue light...and something else.
.RS -5
.PP
Your sudden arrival caught the military off guard, but they're
on their way.
The military is equipped with Tanks, Helicopters, Bombers,
and Maser-Tanks. More powerful weapons are currently under
development and will be deployed when available. And if the
situation looks hopeless...
.PP
Your current health is displayed in a coloured bar at the top left
corner of the screen. You lose energy when you move, activate your
weapon, or get hit. You slowly regenerate energy throughout the game.
When your energy runs out, you die and the game is over.
.PP
You get points for destroying military vehicles and buildings (but not
trees.)
.SH OPTIONS
.IP  -backdrop 20
Run without the textual overlays, making
.I battalion
more suitable for use as a backdrop or a screensaver.
.PP
.IP -detail 20
Start the game with detail turned on.
.PP
.IP -music 20
Start the game with music turned on.
.PP
.IP -sound 20
Start the game with sound turned on.
.SH DEMO MODE
.I Battalion
starts out in demo mode, cycling through the monsters and
unleashing them upon a small unsuspecting town. The monsters aren't
very bright but demo mode will give you an idea what you are up
against. When you want to get in on the fun, press the spacebar.
You can then choose your monster and start senselessly destroying things.
.SH CONTROLS
The 1, 2, and 3 keys control your view:
.RS 5
.TP 20
.SM 1
Monster view. You see the battlefield from the monster's point of view.
.TP 20
.SM 2
Overview. You see an overview of the battlefield. The i,j,k,l keys
rotate the battlefield in this view.
.TP 20
.SM 3
Army view. You see the battlefield from one of the military vehicles
attacking you.
.RS -5
.PP
The mouse and the arrow keys move the monster:
.RS 5
.TP 30
.SM Mouse forward/up arrow
moves monster forwards
.TP 30
.SM Mouse backward/down arrow
moves monster backwards
.TP 30
.SM Mouse right/right arrow
turns monster to its right
.TP 30
.SM Mouse forward/left arrow
turns monster to its left
.RS -5
.PP
The left mouse button and the 'ctrl' keys on the keyboard activate the
monster's weapon.
.PP
The 'a' and 'z' keys on the keyboard tilt the monster's head up and down.
.RS 5
.TP 20
.SM 'a' key
tilts the monster's head up
.TP 20
.SM 'z' key
tilts the monster's head down
.RS -5
.PP
You can resize/iconify the
.I battalion
window as you like. The game is temporarily halted while it is iconified.
.PP
The d key turns detail on/off. With detail on the game will look better
(with fog, transparent explosions, and a bit of texture mapping) but will
play slower.
.PP
The h key activates displays the showcase help file (which contains
the same information as this man page, but with lots of pretty pictures.)
The game is temporarily halted while you are viewing help.
If you are in 3D mode and activate help, you will be taken into 2D mode
before help is displayed. 
.PP
The m key turns the background music on/off. Music will slow the game down
slightly; and I wouldn't recommend
running any other sound-intensive programs at the same time as
.I battalion.
.PP
The p key turns pause on/off. Pause freezes the action (you can't move,
and neither can the army) but the other controls (123, ijkl, dhmpsv)
are still active.
.PP
The s key turns the sound on/off. Sound will slow the game down slightly;
and I wouldn't recommend running any other sound-intensive programs at
the same time as
.I battalion.
.PP
The v key turns 3D video on/off. If you have a pair of 3D glasses
attached to your computer and a capable monitor you will see the
game in 3D. The size of the 3D area will match the size of your current
2D window, allowing you to speed up the 3D game by shrinking the size
of your window before invoking 3D video.
.SH DISCLAIMER
No giant monsters were harmed during the development of this game.
.SH AUTHOR
Andrew Johnson
